# Dunder and Special Methods

Python provides some special features like operator overloading and privatizing methods using the special `__<method_name>__` syntax i.e. we surround the method around 2 underscore characters.

Special methods are specifically a subset of these methods which are surrounded by 2 underscores and have a special meaning in python world. For eg: we can overload the `len` and `get_item` functionality of a class by overloading `__len__` and `__get_item__`   methods. These are also referred as **under-under-get-item-under-under** or **under-under-len-under-under**. But as we can see this can get tiresome so these are also called as **dunder-len** and **dunder-get-item**

eg:

```python
import collections

Card = collections.namedtuple('Card', ['ranks', 'suit'])

class FrenchDeck:
    ranks  = [str(n) for n in range(2, 11)] + list('AJQK')
    suits = 'diamonds clubs spades hearts'.split()

    def __init__(self):
        self._cards = [Card(rank, suit) for suit in self.suits for rank in self.ranks]

    def __len__(self) -> int:
        return len(self._cards)

    def __getitem__(self, pos:int) -> Card:
        return self._cards[pos]
```

Now that we have overridden the basic `__len__` and `__getitem__` methods we can easily take the advantage of the Python Data model, i.e in place of reinventing the wheel and describing every operator for the class `FrenchDeck` we can easily just use the basic python methods already defined for general classes.

Although the `FrenchDeck` class inherits from the `Object` class by default, it does not leverage the Data Model by default. But by overriding the `__len__` and `__getitem__` the class starts behaving like a standard python sequence.

## Use cases

### Basic Use case

```bash
>> deck = FrenchDeck()
>> len(deck)
52
>> deck[0]
Card(rank='2', suit='diamonds')
```

## Random

```python
>> from random import choice
>> choice(deck)
Card(rank='4', suit='hearts')
```

### Iteration

```python
>> for card in sorted(deck):
       ...
>> Card('7', 'spades') in deck
True
```

## How to use Special Method

First thing to know is that the special methods are intended to be called by the python interpreter and not by us directly.

Some automatic cases are:

- `__len__`: When we use the len(obj) method the `__len__` is invoked by the python interpreter. For inbuilt classes like str, list etc, there is a CPython implementation which returns the `obj-size`` field of the PyVarObject C-struct that represents any variable-sized built-in objects in memory.

- `__iter__`: When we write a statement like `for i in x:` it implicitly invokes `iter(x)` which in turn invokes `__iter__`.

- `__repr__`: This is invoked when we try to print the object of a custom made class. By default it will print the class name and a hexa decimal no representing some memory location. We can override this method and return a specific representation which will help in debugging and logging.

- `__str__`: This is very similar to the `__repr__` method, but the use case is very different. This is invoked when we try to typecast an object into string by using the `str(obj)` method. This is usually overridden to provide a proper string for user understanding. Usually the `str()` will use the `__repr__` as a fallback if the `__str__` method is not overridden.

**Note: We should avoid creating our own special methods because these methods might not be implemented in the python interpreter today but maybe later have some special meaning.**

## An Advanced Example

Here we will create a Vector class to represent an Euclidean 2D vector, which can be later inherited to create a N-D vector. Here we will override the `+` , `*` and `abs()` methods.

```python
from math import hypot

class Vector:
    def __init__(self, x:int=0, y:int=0):
        self.x = x
        self.y = y

    def __repr__(self) -> str:
        return 'Vector ({}, {})'.format(self.x, self.y)

    def __abs__(self):
        return hypot(self.x, self.y)

    def __bool__(self):
        return bool(abs(self))

    def __add__(self, other:'Vector') -> 'Vector':
        x = self.x + other.x
        y = self.y + other.y
        return Vector(x, y)

    def __mul__(self, scalar:int) -> 'Vector':
        return Vector(self.x * scalar, self.y * scalar)
```
