# Python Sequences

Sequences can be categorized based on either its contents or its mutatbility.

### Container and Flat Sequences

| Container Sequence | Flat Sequence |
| ------------------ | ------------- |
| list               | str           |
| tuple              | byte          |
| collects.dequeue   | bytearray     |
|                    | memoryview    |
|                    | array.array   |

Container sequences can hold items of different types. It basically holds references to the objects they contain, which may be of any type.

Flat sequences can hold items of only 1 type. It physically stores the value of each item within its own memory space and not as distinct objects like container sequences.

### Mutable and Immutable Sequences

| Mutable Sequences   | Immutable Sequences |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| list                | tuple               |
| bytearray           | str                 |
| array.array         | bytes               |
| collections.dequeue |                     |
| memoryview          |                     |

  Mutable sequences can be modified once it's data has been set whereas immutable sequences data cant be modified once set. 

If a Container sequence object which is immutable contains a mutable flat object, then when we modify the mutable flat object, the immutable object allows it as the reference to the object is still intact and only the value of the mutable object has changed and not the reference to it.

## List Comprehension and Generator Expressions

List comprehensions are also known as *listcomps* whereas the generator comprehensions are also known as the *genexps*.

eg:

```python
a = []
for i in x:
    a.append(i)

#OR using listcomps
a = [i for i in x]
```

**Note: In python code, line breaks are ignored when its inside pairs of `[]` , `{}` or `()`. So we can easily write multiline statements inside a listcomps.**

### Tuples

We can use `*<tuple_name>` to unpack a tuple when using it during a function call.

eg:

```python
t = (10,20)
mul = multiplication(*t) # here t is unpacked as 10, 20and according to that u shoudl 
```

We can also use this feature of tuple to capture extra items in many cases.

eg:

```python
a, b, *c = range(10) # a and b will capture 0 and 1 
                     # and c will capture all other values
a, *b, c = range(10) # this will also work, here a=0, c=9
                     # and b = [1,...8]
```

### Named Tuple

We can use the `collections.namedtuple` for creating named tuples which can be assigned names for each element. Named tuples allow us to give names to each field inside a tuple so that in place of using the index we can use the name of the field to access the value.
