# Why Dart ?

Dart is a modern object oriented open source programing language build in Google by Lars Bak and Kasper Lund. 



## So why Dart ? (Because its so feature rich)

- Dart is a <b>cross platform</b> programming language.
- It is <b>open source</b> and also recognized by ECMA as a standard.
- It is an <b>object oriented</b> programing language.
- It can be <b>transcompiled into Javascript</b> using the dart2js compiler to run on web-browser. This way it can target all platforms including mobile(using flutter) and web browsers.
- It can be executed in <b>AOT</b>(Ahead Of Time) mode, where it can be compiled directly into the machine code.
- It is <b>type safe</b> i.e. it has compile time and run time checks to ensure variable’s type matches the the values it supposed to hold.
- <b>Code Reuse</b>: it is reported that Dart can reuse almost 70% of its code to run in platforms and web browsers using dart2js compiler.
- Dart also supports <b>JIT</b>(Just In Time) compilation with AOT compilation.
- Dart is an <b>asynchronous programing language</b> running on 1 thread. It uses `Isolates` like `web workers` in Javascript for asynchronous jobs. These isolates don’t share the memory and can communicate with one another using messages which can be serialized and deserialized. 
- Dart comes with a rich set of <b>inbuilt libraries</b> like `core`, `async`, `math` etc.
- It is very <b>similar to Java and C#</b>, thus it can be adapted very easily and quickly <b>without having a steep learning curve</b>.

