# Dart Data Types

## Static Data types

Dart is a **statically typed** language which means while declaring a variable, we need to specify what kind of data that variable is going to store. A variable without value has `null` value by default. 

Primitive data types:

- Numbers
  - `int`
  - `double`
  - `num`
- String : `String`
- boolean : `bool`

```dart
int a = 3;
int a2;    // this is set to null

double b = 4;
double b2;  //this is set to null

num pi = 3.14;
num r;     //this is set to ull

String s = 'Hello World';
String s2 = "Hello World, Again!!";
String s3;  //this is set to null

bool pred = true;
bool mysterio = false;
bool gender;  //this is set to null

//we can check null values by using `is` keyword
print({a2 is Null});  //Note here we used Null and not null when checking
```



String can be specified either using single quotes `‘ ’` or double quotes `“ ”` as done in Javascript. For multi-line literal we can accommodate them in triple single quotes `‘''  ‘''`.

Boolean takes `true` or `false` values.

In Dart, like Javascript and Python, everything that a variable holds is an object including `null`.

In Dart, the **infinity** value is a static property of the `double` class and it can be accessed using `double.infinity` syntax. There are other important properties like `nan`.

Since everything in Dart is an object, the data type keywords may look like keywords but they are actually built-in **abstract** classes. Since they are abstract classes which means they can not be instantiated, they do not start with an uppercase letter. 



## Dynamic data types

<b>Dart also allows dynamic type variables using the keyword `var`</b>, here if a variable is defined using var then the data type is inferred during runtime.



## Collections in Dart

Dart provides 3 types of collection class to specify a collection:

- list
- map
- set

### List

Dart provides the creation of array-like data using the list class. We can either use the `List<>` keyword or wrap the data in `[ ]`  to specify a list.

There are multiple methods available to modify a list variable like `.add()`, `.remove()` and many more.

```dart
List<int> radius = [1,2,3,4,5];
radius.add(6);
radius.remove(6);
r = ['a','b','c','d'];
r = [];  //dynamic type list
```



### Map

It is similar to the dictionary class in Python where we can store ‘key’,’value‘ pairs inside the variable. Dart provides the `Map<key type, value type>` class to create the a map. The entries can be accessed using the `.entrie()` method. There are a lot more methods provided by Dart to modify a map. We can also create a map by wrapping the entries(`key : value` pairs) in a `{ }` brackets.

Dart also provides the `HashMap` which does not guarantee the  retrieval of entries in the order in which they were be inserted but gives a fast retrieval method.

```DART
Map<String, int> map = {
  'a' : 1,
  'b' : 2,
  'c' : 3
};
map2 = {
  'd' : 4,
  'e' : 5
};

map3 = {}; //creates a dyanmic type key and value map
```



### Set

A set is similar to the List data structure but the entries are not stored in the order they were inserted. Dart provides the `Set<>` class to create a set or we can also wrap the entries in a `{ }` brackets to 

```dart
s1 = {'a','b','c','d'};
Set<int> s2 = {1,2,3,4,5};
Set<int> s3 = {}; //empty set
```



As we can see that the map and set share the same dynamic type of initialization i.e. the use of `{ }` brackets.

```dart
s = {}; // creates a map
```

This will create a map and not a set. Here `s` is a map with key and value of dynamic type.

To create a set we need to specify the `Set<>` class.

```dart
Set<String> s = {}; //this creates a set of String type
```

