# Asynchronous Programing

Asynchronous operations let your program complete work while waiting for another operation to finish. To perform asynchronous operations in Dart, you can use the `Future` class and the `async` and `await` keywords.



Firstly, let see an incorrect usage of these keywords

```Dart
String getMessage() {
  var msg = getBigMessage();
  return "msg = $msg";
}

Future<String> getBigMessage() {
  return Future.delay(Duration(seconds: 4), () => 'BIG MESSAGE!!');
}

void main () {
  print(getMessage());
}
```

Here the method `getMessage()` doesn’t wait for the big message to arrive and just after calling it returns the message to the calling function in `main()`.



## Basic definitions before we go forward:

- synchronous operation: it blocks other operations from executing before it completes.
- synchronous function: a function that only has synchronous operations.
- asynchronous operation: once initiated, it allows other operations to execute before it completes.
- asynchronous function: a function that has at least 1 operation that is asynchronous.

## Future

A future (lower case “f”) is an instance of the [Future](https://api.dart.dev/stable/dart-async/Future-class.html) (capitalized “F”) class. A future represents the result of an asynchronous operation, and can have two states: uncompleted or completed.

When we call a asynchronous function, it returns with an `uncompleted` future object. This object waits for the state to turn completed or for an error to occur.

A future of type `Future<T>` returns a `T` type object on completion.

The correct way to use it will be:

```dart
Future<void> getMessage() {
  return Future.delayed(Duration(seconds:4),() => print('BIG MESSAGE'));
}

void main(){
  getMessage();
  print('the message is ');
}
```



## async and await

The basic use of these keywords as follows:

- to define an asynchronous function add `async` before the function body
- the `await` keyword works only in `async` functions

An `async` function runs synchronously until the first `await` keyword. This means that within an `async` function body, all synchronous code before the first `await` keyword executes immediately.

So the right way to write the above code is:

```dart
Future<String> getMessage() async {
  var msg = await getBigMessage();
  return 'Your message : $msg';
}

Future<String> getBigMessage() async =>
  Future.delayed(
  	Duration(seconds: 4),
  	() => 'BIG MESSSAGE',
);

Future<void> main () async {
  print('Fetching your message');
  print(await getMessage());
}
```

