# Into BASH

## What is BASH?

It is a shell program.

A shell program is one that provides users with an interface to interact with other programs. There is a large variety of shell programs, each with their own language. Some popular ones are the C shell (csh), Z shell (zsh), Korn shell (ksh), Bourne shell, Debian's Almquist shell (dash), etc. Bash (also called the Bourne Again shell) is currently the most popular and ubiquitously available shell. Even though all of these shells use seemingly similar syntax, it is important to be fully aware of what shell you're actually writing code for.



## Modes

### Interactive Mode

In interactive mode, the bash shell waits for your commands before performing them. Each command you pass it is executed. While a command is being executed, you cannot interact with the bash shell. As soon as the command is finished, you can interact with bash again while bash awaits your next command.

### Non Interactive Mode

The bash shell can also execute scripts. A script is a pre-written series of commands which bash can execute without needing to ask you what to do next. Scripts are generally saved in files and subsequently used to automate a wide range of tasks.

> In a terminal, many terminal-based programs can run simultaneously, forming a chain through which your input and their output flows.

## Standard IO

### File descriptor 0

**File descriptor 0** is also called standard input. This is where most processes receive their input from. By default, processes in your terminal will have their standard input "connected" to your keyboard. More specifically, to the input your terminal program receives.

### File descriptor 1

**File descriptor 1** is also called standard output. This is where most processes send their output to. By default, processes in your terminal will have their standard output "connected" to your display. More specifically, your terminal program will display this output in its window.

### File Descriptor 2

**File descriptor 2** is also called standard error. This is where most processes send their error and informational messages to. By default, processes in your terminal will have their standard error "connected" to your display, just like standard output. It's important to understand that standard error is just another plug, just like standard output, which leads to your terminal's display. It isn't dedicated to errors, in fact bash uses it for most of its informational messages *as well as your prompt*!

> Each time a program is started, the system creates a running process for it. Processes have plugs, called file descriptors which allow them to connect streams that lead to files, devices or other processes.



# Reference

[1]: https://guide.bash.academy










