# Basics

## Hashbang !!

It tells the kernel what interpreter it needs to use to understand the language in this file, and where to find it. We call it a "hashbang" because it always begins with a "hash" `#` followed by a "bang" `!`. Your hashbang must then specify an absolute pathname to any program that understands the language in your file and can take a single argument.

Files with a hashbang as their first line (and the executable permission) can be started by your system's kernel like any other program.

## Bash statements

Any bash statement in a bash script contains the basic structure:

- The command's name is the first word (after the optional assignments). Bash finds the command with that name and starts it.

- A command's name is optionally followed by a list of arg words, the command arguments.

- Finally, a command can also have a set of redirection operations applied to it.

## Pipeline

This is a very powerful tool in bash. This helps us to connect the output of the 1st command to the input of the 2nd command, thus helping us to chain multiple commands to get he preferred output without needing to store intermediate values in temporary variables.

## Lists

List is a sequence of multiple commands and contains a control operator in between 2 commands. This control operator tells the bash what to do when executing the command before it.

Some examples of control operator are: 

- `;`- new line

- `||` - or operator

- `&&` - and operator



## Compound Commands

Compound commands are commands with special syntax inside them. They can do a lot of different things but behave as a single command in a command list.



## Coprocessor

it allows you to easily run a command asynchronously (without making bash wait for it to end, also said to be "in the background") and also set up some new file descriptor plugs that connect directly to the new command's input and output.

Syntax: `coproc [name] <command> [redirection]`

The syntax states that when using coproc command we have 2 optional arguments , the first being the name of the coproc and the 2nd is the redirection of its output to some other command.

## Functions

When you declare a function in bash, you're essentially creating a temporary new command which you can invoke later in the script. Functions are a great way to group a list of commands under a custom name for convenience when you repeat the same task more than once in your script.

Syntax: `name () compound-command [redirection]`

ex: 

```bash
exists () { [[ -x $(type -P "$1" 2>/dev/null) ]]; }
exists gpg || ech "Please install GPG " <&2
```

After the command name go the `()` parentheses. Some languages use these parentheses to declare the arguments the function accepts: **bash does not**. The parentheses should always be empty. They simply denote the fact that you're declaring a function.

## Simple Command

Syntax: `[ var=value ... ] name [ arg ... ] [ redirection ... ]`

- Name: It is the name of the function, program, builtin bash command that we want to run. If the program mentioned is not in the same director as the execution of the script(**NOTE: program has to be in the directory of the *execution of the script*, not the *directory where script is located***)

- arg: These are the arguments that will be passed to the process specified in the name place.

> If there is whitespace or a symbol in your argument, you **must** quote it.  
> If there isn't, quotes are usually optional, but you can still quote it to be safe.

- redirection: By default the terminal emulator has the FD0 attached to the input device like keyboard, FD1 is attached to display and FD2 is also attached to display. So when a program runs inside a terminal emulator or inside another program, it **inherits the file descriptors of the parent program if not specified**.

## Redirection

We use the `>` for redirection FD1 and FD2. 

eg:

```bash
<command> >output.txt 2>error.txt
```

Note: here we didnt use 1 before the `>` operator to signify FD1 but used 2 before `>` to signify FD2. This is because when we dont signify the FD number, it is by default considered 1.

### /dev/null

This is a special device, where when we write anything, it is permanently lost. This is a very special and useful when we want to discard certain data. In most cases, we dont want to see the debug logs, and error messages, in those cases we will redirect our FD2 to /dev/null.

### Duplicating streams

In cases when we want to redirect both the FD1 and the FD2 to the same file we would think that `<command> <args> >op.txt 2> op.txt` might work. But this is not the case. In the above example, both the FD1 and FD2 streams are flushing its content to the `op.txt` file as a result, the contents of the file will be a mix match of characters and words from both the streams. The correct way to do this is to use the copy descriptor operator or `>&` operator.

eg:

```bash
<command> <args> >output.txt 2>&1
```

Note: Make sure you use the copy descriptors properly. 1 common mistake is:

`<command> <args> 2>&1 >output.txt` this is very wrong as here the FD1 was redirecting to terminal output when FD2 got reassigned to FD1's stream and later FD1 was redirected to the output.txt file. So in case we will see that the error logs are printed on the screen whereas the ouput logs are printed into the file.

### Reading from a stream

We have only changed FD1 and FD2 for now. But to assign FD0 a different stream than the keyboard we use the `<` operator. This will make the command to read inputs from the file mentioned on the right of the operator.

The copying descriptor also works for FD0.

So in general the duplicate descriptors can be used in any fashion:

```bash
# Make FDx write to or read from FDy's stream
[x]>&y
[x]<&y
```

### Advanced Redirection

We can also use redirection in append mode, where in place of writing the output from scratch in a new file(existing file gets overwritten), we can make sure that the output is appended to an existing file i.e. the contents of the file are kept intact and new data is written at the end of the file. We use `>>` operator in this case.

To redirect all the output i.e. both FD1 and FD2 we can use the `&>` operator thus saving ourselves from all the hassle.


